---
layout: post
title:  "Jekyll Website: Part 1"
published: false
---

Quick disclaimer: I do not claim to be and am not an expert at using Jekyll. As a non-expert, I'd like to offer my experiences with getting this site up and running in hopes that it might help someone else who might, for whatever reason, like to have a website similar to the one you're looking at right now.

## What is Jekyll?

Jekyll is a static site generator. Please note what that means - you are not generating the website, Jekyll is doing that for you. What you are doing is providing Jekyll with content (i.e., the text you are reading on screen), data, layouts, and individual components.

"Well, it still sounds like I'm the one generating the website then."

To that I say: I am neither for nor against using Jekyll. It's just an option. If it sounds like you'd prefer just writing the whole thing yourself with pure HTML (and/or CSS and Javascript), then by all means go for it. Had it not been for sunk-cost fallacy, I might have also gone down that path.

## Where do I start?

Thankfully, Jekyll has a good amount of documentation. Just follow the step-by-step tutorial on the [Jekyll website](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/step-by-step/01-setup/). That's it.

Okay, that's not all I have to offer. Here are the key points in Jekyll:

#### Providing Jekyll with content
Jekyll makes HTML files from markdown (.md) files. That said, one of the core tenets of Jekyll is: **do not edit the html files that Jekyll generates for you**. Instead, create and edit .md files. Within those .md files, you can specify the layout of the page Jekyll generates. 

#### Writing your layout 
Edit the layout HTML file to fit your purposes. It's an HTML template. 